Coding conventions: more checkers and guidelines document. (#168)
GridTools/gt4py: REVIEW_CHECKLIST.rst

================
Review Checklist
================

Use this checklist to review pull requests. If the pull request is large,
consider giving partial feedback quickly rather than taking a long time to
review comprehensively.

Large PRs
---------

> - Consider giving partial feedback. The following are in order of magnitude
>   changes they will request, so rather than going down the list for one file,
>   prefer making a full pass for each section.

Reviewer: Weird wording here. An alternative wording  suggestion:
```suggestion
- Consider giving partial feedback. The following items are ordered according to the magnitude
  of changes they will involve, so rather than going down the list for one file,
  prefer making a full pass for each section.
```

Author: A big improvement, thanks!

Do not allow untested "functionality" or "fixes"
------------------------------------------------

- If there is new functionality, is there a unit or at least integration test
  for it as well?

- If this fixes any issues, is there a regression test for every issue fixed?

Check for obvious omissions
---------------------------

> - Any comment mentioning that something is incomplete or could be improved etc

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Any comment mentioning that something is incomplete or could be improved
```

  should be addressed before merging or split out into an issue.

Check for code quality
----------------------

- Are there any coupling issues?

>  + Are any interfaces circumvented (calling underlying methods instead of
>    interface methods etc)?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 + Are any interfaces circumvented (e.g. calling underlying methods instead of
   interface methods)?
```

 + Does any part of the code require knowledge of the inner workings of another
   part?

 + Do you see any violations of encapsulation (use of ``._protected``
   attributes of another class)?

- Are there functions or methods that are too complex?

 + many possible code paths (>3)? -> suggest splitting unless trivial

 + contain more than one loop? -> suggest splitting if appropriate (Ideally
   split loops into their own functions, which should be generators where
   possible)

 + Could complexity be reduced by using a different algorithm? Think DFS <->

>    BFS, recursion <-> iteration, etc

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   BFS, recursion <-> iteration, etc.
```

- Are there loops that could be replaced by simple comprehensions or too
  complex comprehensions?

- Consider the overall design: could it be improved significantly? Might it

>   block future improvements ins some way?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  block future improvements in some way?
```

   ignore # <reason>`` comments.

- Every single comment that punctually disables a code check needs an
  associated explaining comment directly above or behind

Check for docstrings
--------------------
In general we consider that a well named simple function with type annotations does not require a docstring.

- Consider new public classes / functions: they should have a docstring if
 + Their purpose is not obvious from the name (also consider renaming)
 + Their Body is complex
 + Someone might want to use them interactively (from a shell or notebook)

- Check existing docstrings: do they need to be expanded or updated?

Check for legacy compliance
---------------------------
Only appropriate for internal PRs

- Has at least one of the changed files been removed from the pre-commit
  exclude list?

- Are there missing type annotations in changed files? -> suggest locally
  running mypy with ``--disallow-untyped-defs --disallow-incomplete-defs``. If
  the file is large, suggest fixing only part of these

Check for sphinx docs
---------------------
- Anything user relevant that changes or is added should be reflected in the

>   sphinx docs.

Reviewer: I miss a section about the legal checks (contribution agreement signed? name added to authors' list? etc.)

Author: That stuff is still in the pr template

Reviewer: Sure, but the PR template is mostly for the user opening the PR, not for the reviewer. If the users removes that part from the PR description and the reviewer only follows this checklist he could forget about it, which would be very bad for this specific issues due to the potential legal problems that could entail.
